# Introduction 
TODO: Back-End desktop project to Haus Training

# Getting Started

## Configuring Node in the project
1. Install Nodejs 20.12.1 version. It is advisable to use nvm(Node version package).

2. Software Installation
  - 1. In the project's `bash terminal`, open your profile file as a text editor using the command:
    ```
    nano ~/.bashrc
    ```

  - 2. Add the following code to the end of the profile file to configure NVM and press `Ctrl + o` to save the file:
    ```
    export NVM_DIR="$HOME/.nvm"
    [ -s "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh" ] && \. "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh"  # This loads nvm
    [ -s "$NVM_DIR/bash_completion" ] && \. "$NVM_DIR/bash_completion"  # This loads nvm bash_completion
    ```

  - 3. Reload the profile file by running the command:
    ```
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

  - 4. Install NVM:
    ```
    curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.1/install.sh | bash
    ```

  **Important:** Close and reopen the `bash terminal` to ensure NVM is configured correctly.

    To check if the NVM installation was successful, run the command:
    ```
    nvm --version
    ```

  To install the version of Node used in this boilerplate, run the command:
    ```
    nvm install 20.12.1
    ```
    ```
    nvm use 20.12.1
    ```

## Running the project
This project uses the `Yarn` package manager, so install the manager on your computer using the link:
[Yarn Installation](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#windows-stable)

To run the project, follow these steps:

1. Start installing dependencies with the command:
```
yarn
```

4. To apply the migrations, the command below must be executed:
```
yarn prisma migrate dev
```
OBS: check if the tables have been created in the database. You can view it in the database or by running Prisma Studio using the command
```
yarn prisma studio
```

3. To run the project in a development environment, run the command:
```
yarn dev
```

# Build and Test
1- It is necessary to generate an javascript build, run the command below without the application running in another terminal:

  ```
  yarn build
  ```
The folder generated by the build is in the "build" directory in the project root. It contains the build of project

2. To test the project in js mode use the command
  ```
  yarn start
  ``` 

## Libraries and Technologies
  - Typescript 
  - Nodejs 
  - express.js
  - sql server
  - swwager

This project was developed with the following libraries:
  - express.js
  - prisma orm
  - sql server
  - uuid
  - inversify
  - babel
  - eslint and prettier
  - dotenv

## Creating project executable
Globally install the package with the command below.

```
npm install -g pkg
```
Add the following object to your json package.

```
  "bin": "./build/shared/infra/http/server.js",
  "pkg": {
    "scripts": "build/**/*.js",
    "assets": [
      "node_modules",
      "build",
      ".env",
      "babel.config.js",
      "tmp"
    ]
  }
```
Run the command below
```
  pkg -t node-latest-win-x64 .
``` 

Then check if an executable was created in the root of the project. Run the exe and check if the application is working as in development mode

To hide the exe window we will use pm2 . To do this, globally install pm2 on your computer.
  - npm install pm2 -g
  - npm install pm2-windows-startup -g
  - pm2-startup install

To start the automatic process, execute the commands below.
  - pm2 start <yourExe.exe> --no-daemon -i 1 --name yournameapp
  - pm2 save
  - reboot
  - pm2 ls

Check if the project was started successfully on the computer

## Backend project structure

- API: Exposes endpoints for front-end use and for synchronization with the web. Contains the controllers with the endpoints, middleware, API configurations.
- Application: Contains application services, repository interfaces and use cases.
- Domain: Contains entities, constants, enumerators, types and exceptions. It is the layer that does not depend on any other layer.
- Infra: Contains the entire data persistence part (context, entity configuration, DTO repositories) 
- IoC: Contains dependency resolution settings
- Test: Contains the project's tests. In the name of unit tests only.